"If the doors of perception were cleansed every thing would appear to man as it is, Infinite. For man has closed himself up, till he sees all things thro' narrow chinks of his cavern.” William Blake, The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

Join us on July 4th, 8pm CET for a talk show featuring works by creative student researchers of the Media Technology MSc program at Leiden University, exploring the theme "OPEN", to be streamed live from our Media Technology Youtube channel.

We have been hiding in our high tech caves for a couple of months, and societies are now opening up again. Will we go back to the old days or to a new normal? It's no coincidence there has been an explosion of debate now on the lack of openness of certain groups, politicians, institutions and systems, and that we want to change this. And more generally, despite economical restrictions, we seem to be a lot more open now to design new futures with respect to society, politics, nature and technology. Being confined to our homes has not only given us think time, but being physically distant but digitally close has given us new perspectives and ways-of-seeing of the digital-natural universes we live in, and open the doors of perception.

In this online expo creative student researchers from the Leiden University Media Technology MSc program imagineer new realities, blending art, research and technology. The expo spans a continuum of documented works created out in the open, in public space, to more intimate works created in the lockdown confinements of our homes. It's not static expo, more a playful research lab, where the creative researchers work from personal inspiration, and in a matter of days create physical/digital works to quickly explore concepts and create projects that trigger the audience to evoke ideas or questions. The works are the outcomes of the New Media New Technology course within the Media Technology program.

Parallels connect matter and myth, metaphor and phenomenon, theory and observation, virtuality and reality, the physical and digital, and the present and the future. Parallels are like mirrors giving us a new perspective of our world and a way to extrapolate deep into the future. But just when you thought everything was perfectly aligned, you might be in for a surprise.

In this expo creative researchers from the Leiden University Media Technology MSc program will imagineer new realities, blending art, research and technology. 

This will not be a static expo, more a playful research lab that mixes scientific approaches to art with creative approaches to science, for all ages and audiences. The researchers work from personal inspiration and create physical works to explore concepts and engage the visitor to evoke ideas or questions. Many installations are interactive, some are early studies and prototypes, others will be more polished end products. The creative researchers will be around to discuss the concepts, inspiration, ideas and methods behind their work, and even hack some more on the fly. 

The expo combines works from the first year New Media New Technology course with selected works from the second year project Statement to Experience, see end of page for background.

What is natural, and what is artificial? The borders between nature, humanity, science and technology continue to blur. 

Today’s negative impacts of technology on nature are evident, but can we imagine a more positive future where technology makes nature stronger? Where nature and technology blend into symbiotic lifeforms, and augmented ecologies evolve? How can we hack nature for good purposes?

Creative researchers from the Leiden University Media Technology MSc program will imagineer new realities, combining nature and technology. This will not be a static expo, more a playful research lab that mixes scientific approaches to art with creative approaches to science, for all ages and audiences. The researchers work from personal inspiration and create physical works to explore concepts and engage the visitor, and to evoke ideas or questions. Many installations are interactive, some are early studies and prototypes, others will be more polished end products. The creative researchers will be around to discuss the concepts, inspiration, ideas and methods behind their work, and even hack some more on the fly. 

The standard model of cosmology is an elegant work of art and a powerful piece of science. There is only one small problem: 95% of the mass of the universe is missing. So to make the theory work physicists have stipulated the existence of dark matter and energy; matter that we can't see as it is invisible to the entire electromagnetic spectrum.

Many other dark matters have been conceived since the discovery of fire. Dark matters are the bits of magic we invent to make our theories and beliefs of the world work again. Dark matters are living proof that humans can creatively dream up what doesn’t exist yet. And while we fear the dark, it also attracts us. Because the dark matters.

Creative researchers from the Leiden University Media Technology MSc program will imagineer new realities, blending art, science and technology into a thought provoking, disorienting mix of dark matters, hosted in De Meelfabriek in Leiden.

Scientific research is accelerating, but what if the science machine uses science to improve itself as well as ourselves autonomously? Are we then at the dawn of an intelligence explosion? And what will be the impact on human nature; will we be in control, will it try to beat us, or will we merge into a single life form? Do we know what the possible futures are, and what futures we actually desire? 

And most importantly: can we change the future by speculating on it? 

This will not be a static expo, more a playful research space that mixes scientific approaches to art with creative approaches to science and research, for all audiences. The researchers work from personal inspiration and curiosity and create physical works to explore their concepts or engage the visitor to evoke ideas or questions. Many installations are interactive, some are early studies and prototypes, others will be more polished end products.  And all will speculate on  alternate futures that are yet to come, or that have already happened without you noticing. And all let you make your mind up yourself.

