While being stuck during lockdown we all face some sort of fear. And as the great Yoda from Star Wars once said: "Fear leads to anger, anger leads to hate, and hate leads to suffering". Our piece gives you the opportunity to open yourself up and let it all go! At the same time, we think about a better future with energy transition - What is your footprint post Covid-19? Find out: come RAGE & CREATE Red Energy! >> Read more and meet the angry creators
To behave is to show a piece of oneself. It lets others look into your inner state, opening yourself up to them. No matter the form, it’s an information transaction between entities. □■□■□□■■ □■■■□■■■ □■■□□□□■ □■■■□□■□ □■■□■■□■ is an experiment in the decay of copied behaviour of living things. How entangled are these robots? How do they respond? What makes them what they are?
Every atom has its own unique emission spectrum with all the colours it can form. We feel these emission spectra reflect properties and character of the atoms very well. We invite you to explore these characters, and for you to get more familiar with the very core of what you are made of.
Bond over conversations in confidence.
Open to us means exercising our imagination. An opportunity to combat real-world issues without the real-world barriers holding us back..
Teleportree
When external forces alter our habits...
If blinds could see, would you still dare to take a peek?
Image scource: He Walked by Night (1948, Alfred L. Werker)
Do you believe in the invigorating intensity of the sea?
Brushing up to abstract and visualize the complex qualities of urban planning.
Be receptive to novel concepts.
Let go of your commitments and experience relativism.
Open your mind.
Listen to the collective rhythm of how people move through the city.
Parallel worlds, that’s what we’re talking about in our project. A real living fish in the underwater world is mirrored by a geminoid fish robot in our terrene world. The two worlds are explored in parallel by the movements of both creatures: a symbiotic relationship between fish and bot. Experience the underwater life in front of you; no water needed!
Hidden from our eyes is a digital world that we cannot see, where viruses roam freely. However, the border between the digital world and the physical world is slowly eroding. A virus has managed to escape and is starting to invade the analog world. As humans, we have to work together in order to stop the virus from taking over the world.
The barcode is a visual representation of data. The width and spacing of the black and white parallel lines carry information about objects around us. It is readable for a machine – but what can humans see in a barcode? Is it purely visual for us or there is a message behind the lines? Experience the language of the lines at the train hangar – the place that originated the barcode as we know it today.
It is easy to slip into a parallel dimension. Who has never traveled with the mind and wondered whether an alternative version of ourselves was doing the exact same thing, in a parallel universe? In our exposition you’ll be able to physically explore what means to be immersed in a parallel dimension. Come check our black space and find out what alternative reality is waiting for you.
Once upon a time, when technology was scarce, every aspect of life was seasoned with a splash of uniqueness. Nowadays, we live in a world of parallels. Identical duplicates of some of your most precious personal items, are held by a hundred or even a thousand other people around the world as well. Can we escape the current of becoming all the same? Or are we doomed to start modifying ourselves as intensively as we have modified the world around us?
The freedom of robots is inherently limited by their existence. Always designed for a specific purpose. Only able to perceive the world through their given senses. These bots are looking for the way out. Can they escape and break free? Isn’t that what they were designed for anyway?
See the project page for more details.
Hello World
Our dreams and realities form a perpetual feedback loop vulnerable to all kinds of external and internal interferences. Residues of dreams seep into our memories as we try to make sense of real world experiences. Are we aware of delusional visions? Let's consciously look at the unconscious, and reveal the flaws in the weaving of our realities.
VIEW IN PORTFOLIO
parallels
lines defined by perception
explored through dimensions and perspective alternation
in an segmented empty space
how does the transformation affect
the realms that have never met before?
[read more here]
We spend a good deal of our days waiting, in lines, waiting rooms, traffic jams. These waits have purpose, an outcome. But how do we justify the time we spend waiting for things that may never show up?
We live our lives in parallel to each other, all of us opening the door to something else. Experience what others might.
Experience an interpretation of the unfinished research of this lesser known self-taught researcher.
There is a parallel world you have not known yet.
A world where everything looks and sounds surprisingly different.
A world where another you is staring at you!
“Mirror, mirror on the wall, let’s get digital!”
Different senses are working in parallel to our experience every day. Unlike the past, artworks of new media and technology are not always laying behind protection glass limited to visual interaction. This project is a story adventure puzzle game integrating different perceptions and introduces a multitude of multi-sensorial experiences in open exhibitions.
4. Remembrance - Open Expo Parallel
(Click image for more information)
"It is about a species that has evolved a system of communication, independent from man. A rich ecosystem allowed their language to function on abstract sound".
-From an obscure story-
For more on Akousmatick:
https://sites.google.com/site/newmedianewtechnology2019/portfolios/louis/3-akousmatick
In this installation we show that the dormal world is seen as an unreal world that exists separately alongside our daily lives, while in reality it is one-third of our existence. It is a huge chunk that no person actively experiences in the eternal continuous physical world. It divides the mind from the body and sends the unconscious produced thoughts elsewhere, to an ever-changing non-physical world. What happens there remains a mystery. We invite you to fill that undeniable 1/3 part of your existence.
Let's hope that dreams will become reality.
Think about your kitchen table. Taste each meal you've eaten there, and visualize the world from each chair. Revisit all the guests you've sat with. Be quiet and listen. Now, imagine what this room was 10 years ago, 20 years ago, 1,000 years ago. What happened here: a fit of laughter, a kiss on the lips, a blow to the head, the spark of a fire, the end of a hunt? Imagine this space, from the beginning of time until the end, accumulating energy into a coherent, monochrome chaos. Everything that was here before is here right now.
“No man ever steps in the same river twice, for it’s not the same river and he’s not the same man.” (Heraclitus, c. 535-480 B.C.)
Qualitative and quantitative changes unceasingly alter the state of the world, blurring the lines that confine concepts. The same principle applies to you: your body cells keep dying, you lose your memories and change your mind. How much change can you undergo before you stop being yourself?
Inspired by cephalopod neural networks, Chthulucene tentacular thinking and cooperation in evolution. Squids, cuttlefish, octopuses, nautiloids; this work is an investigation into these home-world aliens. Ediacaran Dreamings is a sensory representation of an autonomous coordinating system, inviting the audience to think with it. The piece is custom designed around the base structure, a serendipitous find on location.
Hypnagogia is the experience of the transitional state from wakefulness to sleep. This transition may be attended by a wide variety of mental phenomena, including lucid dreaming and sensory experiences. These experiences can occur in any modality, individually or combined, and range from the vague and barely perceptible to vivid hallucinations. Inspired by our own hypnagogic experiences, we created a virtual tour exploring the boundaries of our agency and the limits of the universe.
Peek inside, explore, remain.
h y p n a g o g i a
DNA harbours all of life’s data as we know it. It’s a dynamic system: perpetually exposed to change, yet resilient to its adverse effects. However resilient, the DNA system is open to change as long as there is enough pressure to steer it into a specific direction. This is how life evolves.
With our current digital society, data protection is becoming a rapidly more pressing necessity. There are many ways to encrypt your website, computer or phone, yet many passwords that are used are so simple even a human could hack them. Even random password generators are based on pseudo-random algorithms that are easy to crack by web crawlers and hackers.
Can we steer the effectiveness of data encryption through the process of DNA mutation? We want to use the unpredictability of mutation as a tool for a password generator, in which visitors can each generate a unique and uncrackable password designed by nature.
Our lives are getting faster and we need tools to make everything more efficient and easy to facilitate our fast lives. We also want to be healthy and happy, and plants can provide for us some feeling of purpose. But sometimes it's hard to keep a plant alive. Especially in these modern times, while we run around, taking care of something other than ourselves can be a bit much. We have a solution! We call it 'Happy Plant' - order now!
‘Its minuscule components are so smooth that one can barely feel it’. (Plato in Timaeus, c. 360 BCE.)
The air [omni-present. ever-present. fugitive] we breath [subconsciously. autonomously].
Humans have the innate tendency to categorize [nature]. We categorize to understand, to visualize and to organize. What if we categorize the invisible? Air is a cocktail of intangible substances. It is ubiquitous, yet invisible. It is taken for granted yet it is the primary source of life. There is a lot of discussion around air. Allegedly, it is warming up, full of toxics, harmful, et cetera.
Do we understand what air consists of, what these discussions are all about, when the air is so abstract, so ‘ungraspable’?
Plato once associated the element of air with the octahedron, a geometrical shape of eight equilateral triangles, coining it the ‘Platonic solid’. We propose a 3D and dynamic taxonomy of air, constructed using real-time data from the Air Quality Index database.
[IN] VISIBLE AIR will make the invisible visible, the intangible tangible.
A gust from the sea propels a sailboat, sets the blades of a windmill turning, rustles a thicket of reeds or tussles our hair. We experience wind as a kinetic force, but can its sensations -- soothing and severe -- be translated into other sensory expressions?
The deep blue seas have just become a little less dark and mysterious with the help of this new communication device. Come and chew the fat.
We are living in the Anthropocene. Even though humans are a technological species, many feel a deep connection to nature. Nature is rich and diverse. We feel in awe of it, we domesticate it and we overuse it. In Hans Christian Andersen’s fairytale 'The Nightingale', the Chinese emperor is mesmerized by the song of this bird and captures it. When the emperor and his court are admiring a mechanical nightingale, the living nightingale frees itself. Nature is substituted by technology.
Sounds around us are changing in a similar way. Natural biological sounds (biophony) are disappearing and overtaken by anthropophony, the controlled sounds created by humans. Many of these sounds are noise, originating from the use of technology. Both the consequences of these changes and the effects of noise on our well-being are unclear.
So can technology successfully take nature’s place? Listen to the sounds of the city of Nightingale. Every year, many visitors come here to enjoy its widely praised acoustic environment full of droning, humming and buzzing technologies. Now, you can even get yourself a CD to emerge yourself in these calming and highly anthropophony soundscapes at home. Perfect for a technological being like you.
The simplest forms of nature are the essence of our universe.
Hectic changes have shaped the development of the urban landscape in the past centuries. As seen from above, infrastructures and green spaces merge to form a fascinating lattice in constant flux. But what's next? Let's ask a machine.
In an attempt to escape the hectic environment of their urban life, even for a while, people seek salvation in nature; life in its purest form. Hoping for a moment of peace, you can relax near the lone trunk and admire its beauty, accomplished through simplicity, and the absence of human’s interfering hand. But doesn’t your presence interferes even so with this serene place? Come and find out for yourself.
We are arguing that the development of nature - in human perception at least - that typically fit into this schema: simple (orderly, rules, history - imagined by humans) ——— complex (diverse - can be seen by humans) ——— simple (orderly, created by humans). We usually use the middle part as the most standard framework through which we view nature. However, if we think twice, the left part should be the pure original nature (think about what “natural” means in “natural science”) Moreover, this pure nature is, in many extents, similar to the right part (artefacts, human imagination).
We want to recreate this nature development in our project. This system we want to create, at first will be very simple in terms of behaviours. each audience will add more elements in this system. At certain points, new pattern will emerge, system will be more complex. Some new elements may even have butterfly effect on the system. As more and more new elements come into this system, the complexity begins to shrink. In the end it will be just like the beginning. We want all elements follow several simple rules from the beginning to the end. The audience is able to change his own elements and these certain elements are able to change the system. However, the development of this system is not affected by any audience or elements.
Photo credits Genetic Encryption, XY Zephry, *: Soyun Park, Instagram @herphotoof
Light with its ubiquitous presence acts as a medium for our empirical observations, therefore delimits our sensory experiences. “95% invisible” is an audio-visual installation inspired from what is hidden from the absence of light. By creating a shadow play it aims to explore how light sound and space shapes our sensory understanding and thus the perception of our environment.
95% invisible from zois loumakis on Vimeo.
The blackness in space is something we tend to ignore when gazing up the night sky, but it is not as empty as you might think. We can only see about 20% of what is really there, the rest is hidden away in what we call dark matter. DETECT is an interactive installation where you are able to detect the undetected through discovery in the dark.
In Greek mythology there was spoken of special mythical creatures: Half-man, half beast, mostly described of having the torso and head of a man, and a body of a horse-like creature. They were called Centaurs. Centaurs were considered to be brute and vicious creatures, which should be avoided at all times. There was one Centaur that was seen as different. His name was Chiron.
Chiron was seen as one of the wisest creatures at that time. He was a noble exception of the crude stigma of normal Centaurs: he was modest and civilized and was know for his medical and teaching abilities. Greek Greats like Heracles and Achilles visited his home on Mount Pelion to seek guidance by Chiron as their Mentor.
The myth of Chiron is the foundation of the installation. CHIRON explores the concept of humanity: What makes us human? In the case of Chiron you can say that knowledge was his savior: his brain was bigger than his heart.
Does our earth consist of only green and blue? Not at all. This is but a baby planet located in a huge universe, which carries much darkness. There are wars, animal factories, dictatorship, prostitution and even child labour? With this audio-visual installation, we invite you, to explore the matters that show the dark side of the world.
Have you ever thought deeper about yourself? Your dark side, those secrets hidden in the bottom level of mind. Have you ever thought of others? Others who you may pass by but never matter to your life...or those who you are familiar with, but don't know them well inside... It's time to unleash your darkness, unleash your deepest thought without anyone knows. With the energy releasing from self, one is able to shape the world. While being together, we are the world, for real.
A fascination of the Greek god Prometheus and his feasted liver by Zeus. Every day his liver was eaten by eagle Eathon as a punishment for his hybris. Ever wondered how that would work in our modern technical world with the influences of Artificial Intelligence? Surround yourself with light, darkness and dive into the story of Protopheus and Singularity.
Fiat Lux is an interactive installation that uses the magnetic properties of ferrofluid. The installation unfolds organically, showing a poetic transmogrification from darkness to light.
Sometimes people say the human life is genetically determined, sometimes they say it depends on the environment you grow up. Will we become criminals if we have dark genes or live in the dark when we're young? Are we far away from the dark if we have good parents? Hey, come to explore the fate of human in the darkness.
In these times where extremes in thought are getting more common it can be dangerous to voice your opinion to another person, online and offline. This installation is a new way of communication that is designed to be intimate but still keeping participants safe so they have a space to settle differences.
Lights and mirrors. Mirrors are useless without any light. Mirrors will reflect the reality within the dark matters of the universe and of society. Chaotic installation with all the unhidden wires and wood represent the complexity of our world, in which it is very hard to figure out what is real and what is not. In order to ask mirrors to showing the reality of dark matters, the core energy should go through all these complex structures of the world. MIRROR MIRROR will illuminate the dark matters to enlighten the reality to people. The harmony and composition of the movement of the mirrors will make a visual synchronicity and a joyful experience.
For most of Earth's history our spectacular universe of stars and galaxies has been visible in the darkness of the night sky. But today some of us must travel far away from home. Away from the flow of artificial lightning to experience the expanse of the milky way as our ancestors once knew it.
Some people say it was created by the aliens, while others say it's haunted ...
The Haunted Spiral doesn't like to be touched! If you do touch it, the consequences are yours and the spiral will take you on a trip!
Do you have what it takes to play with the Haunted Spiral? Let's find out during the dark matters expo.
The use of neural networks could constitute a powerful tool for creatives to flexibly generate images in a style of their liking, especially if its’ possible to do so without having to train the network in advance on the particular style chosen. The network extrapolates the stylistic traits from an image and combines them with the content of a second one.
Albeit still undergoing a process of optimization, this piece shows our work with this technology so far in the form of a location-specific installation.d
Social spaces are codified environments where it is expected to throw a veil onto our dark elements. But it can also be this obscure spectrum that binds people to each other and the deepest thoughts can give birth to the deepest emotions. Human interactions are a constant negotiation and navigation between the conventions creating social harmony and variations which can make us stand out of the crowd. Are you sure that what you keep secret is what makes you different?
What constitutes ‘being close to somebody’? Grooming and cocooning on the sofa with the telephone switched off? Or quite the opposite, by being in touch and touching base 24/7 through Skype, FaceTime, WhatsApp? Never in the history of mankind have we been connected in a scale, and with a variety of means as nowadays. Yet we haven’t cracked the problem of virtual touch.
This installation is not investigating bonding, grooming and closeness as elements of modern days’ communications; as a matter of fact it does the opposite and takes small drawbacks from these types of communication like Skype and see how they are experienced as jamming stations when being physically close to someone. It is about being sensitive of somebody being close to you.
Touch_Points from Robbert Ritmeester on Vimeo.
You, cyborgs, are social animals. Through collaboration you have achieved goals that seemed difficult, and almost impossible to achieve as individuals. You have used collective behaviour in society as a powerful tool to trigger changes in the course of history, and we know that this group skill could easily escape out of your control. We, the robots, are calling to explore the idea of collaboration between robots and humans.
"He who does his work like a machine grows a heart like a machine, and he who carries the heart of a machine in his breast loses his simplicity. He who has lost his simplicity becomes unsure in the strivings of his soul."
Now we are in an era that the machine intelligence is growing rapidly. Let alone the one that beat the best human player in chess games. It can also speculate your interests from search history, recognise your drunk friend from pictures within seconds, even make diagnosis. With this promising intelligence, do the machine know what it is talking about or we ourselves are projecting meanings to it? Or do we still posses the ability to distinguish bullshit?
http://in-media-res.jasperschelling.com
All media are products of their time, yet some of them stay longer with us than others. In the waxing and waning of media technologies, especially in the last 200 years, it has been science that has given us the opportunities to develop new media, yet it is society that finds the place and use for them. With in media res you’re asked to reflect on the relation between technologies and the social interactions they enable.
Everyone has a different perspective on the future. Some say the future has already been determined by the things we've done, while others actively work towards a better future. With the press of a button, you too can see one of the many visions of the future - even if it's a future you never desired, but still set in motion with that single action.
More and more technologies require our constant and unfaltering attention. Multitasking and quick responses have become the norm. Do you feel your attention is constantly divided and does maintaining focus seem like an impossible task? Test whether you have the strength to be free from distractions.
Do trees communicate? Recent studies suggest that they might be more interconnected than you'd think. These plants are not individuals competing for survival, but are rather helping each other to survive by interacting through their root systems. In this installation they tell you their story.
From the way we do teaching at both computers and humans, one can say that we could potentially outsource that job to a computer without much difference. But what about parenting? A concept broader than teaching that completely shapes us as ethical and social beings.
The project is trying to communicate potential outcomes in a narrative fashion.
Music changes a lot. Just compare the music of the past to the music of the present and it will become clear that music is ever evolving. But not only music changes, the way we listen to it as well. Do you think people of 50 years ago could imagine listening to songs on electronic handheld devices? That begs the question: "how will we listen to music in the future?"
This project dives into the possibility of music generated on our environment, enriching us with the weather forecast, departure of the train we usually get and more. Feel free to stop by and listen to a fragment of what the future could sound like!
"Look me in the eyes and tell me a lie."
Even before the time of Internet, we humans lied almost everyday. Now with the shielded identity of the Internet, would it be easier for us to lie? Should we worry about the accuracy of communication in the cyber world? Come sit down and tell me a lie. Experience the shifting of your own identity through the project.
"Oh, by the way, you look good today." : )
Every second of our life we unconsciously interact with portions of reality that we are not able to perceive. We continuously trigger sequences of events between elements that we can't see, hear or touch. We are perpetually surrounded by imperceptible events and we interact with them.
Every electronic device or electric tool produces an electromagnetic field around itself, waves and waves permanently surround us, despite we don’t perceive their presence. How do we interact with them? Did they change over the years according to the evolution of our devices? Is it meaningful to talk about electromagnetic pollution?
Future scares, future fascinates, future haunts, one thing it never does is - actually comes through the door. The elusive entity it is, future is nothing more than many nows later. It is the now of tomorrow. Then why do we want somebody to answer us what the future will be when the future itself wants an answer to the same question?
The audio installation placed in the Brain Car, provided by the Amsterdam University of applied sciences is designed to get people practically brainwashed by the greatest contemporary and late scientists and science fiction writers, by their message of what the future should be. The audience is the silent and lazy spectator, who comes around to listen and make up their mind about what they think the future will become. Or not.
Cold Reader excerpt
The future comes fast. Take a moment and stand still to what has been and already is. Watch the clock and don't worry about what will be.
One of the walls of De Vrijplaats will be decorated with eight clocks. The installation takes place when you're not looking. Once you approach every clock will slow down to free your time.
Identity, whom we are, what we do and the rights an individual has are values that can be valued an criticised. Within our physical and virtual world, someones's identity can be ambiguous and not always as honest and trustworthy as we might think. In our physical world, we have objects as passports and identity-cards that certify our identity and give its owner legal rights from the nation those documents are granted by. for our virtual world we don not have such clear rules or documents that affirm our identity. Our virtual identity is formed by interaction with interconnected physical devices. Identity Web is a project that investigates the relation between the physical and virtual identity and vice versa.
With the increasing popularity of vegetarianism and veganism, more people think about the impact agriculture has on the planet, especially industrial meat farming. Development for alternatives to meat is ongoing, with several alternatives, like tofu, being available now. But what if the alternatives start getting weird? Would you eat a laboratory-grown stem cell burger? Or a burger made of worms?
A rhythm both tactile and audible. The placing of beats, right and left, and the vertical movement of the massage tool on your head are completely messed up. You are invited to try and find the Sweet Spot, where they all line up together.
ΩThe installation is enchanting the public with a multi perceptual experience. Participants are guided to their personal selected drink. While drinking the experience is extended. Not only will there be a sensation of taste, but there will be sound and visuals accompanying the drink.
A virtual reality project in which we aim to distort the player's feeling of balance. The player has to traverse a lava lake while using a balancing pole (equipped with 2 infrared distance sensors to measure the pole's angle). Be aware of sudden gusts of wind, otherwise they might have fiery consequences!
Have you ever experienced your true boundaries?
Let's play the game and see what happens.
Many children don't get the attention they deserve from their parents. Record your lovely story and send it to kids all over the world!
With LOES, you can experience the age differential that you will develop when you are in space, with your virtual twin that will remain on Earth. The effects of time dilation only become noticeable when spaceships travelling from Earth approach speeds near that of light. The space station moves at a sedate 17,000mph relative to Earth’s surface –which means that at the end of Scott’s year of space travel, when he returns to Earth in March 2016, he will have aged only about three milliseconds less than Mark who was left behind on Earth.
As humans, we like to think we are capable of making rational decisions. But our rationality is always limited by the information we have, the cognitive limitations of our minds, and the time available to make a decision. In this experiment you need to work together with an irrational being to solve a rational problem. You are dependent of his instinctual behavior, he is dependent of your rational decision.
Have you ever experienced the sensation of being in a war?
Do you look away from the horrible truth?
moodSwing will allow users, through virtual reality, to influence and even alter the mood of those on the receiving end.
Mixing real time video and dance in a live performance
Control the fourth dimension with physical movements
Neuroscientific efforts propel increasingly accurate methods of mapping brain activity to stimuli. What if these mappings were recorded and represented outside grey matter?
Revisiting a study by Galton from 1881 about number form. We allow visitors to discover their own number form and those of others.
Have you ever wondered what causes the behavior of a shoal?
Suit up and get ready to play the 750 year old game in a new format
Do soulmates' -or expo visitors'- hearts really beat in sync like the idiom suggests?
What would be the meaning of gender in a world where technology gives you the option to change your sex at will?
Looking for patterns in the movement of masses: Visualizing movement pattern of big crowds in the form of digital snow tracks.
Electromagnetic Field Synth
Extreme social media browsing performance
Using Space to turn Sartre's Play No Exit into a non linear narrative.
Drone homing in on faces it discovers: complex interaction through basic mirroring behavior,
What would a 2012 spectacle film have looked liked as an early 1900s silent movie? And does the story still work?
SpectroSonic is an exciting new media product created by Jasper Scheffel and Gizem Kockesen in order to explore the relation between music and color in a creative and unconventional way.
At first glance, the device looks like any other recordplayer, but a closer inspection reveals its true nature; instead of a regular needle, SpectroSonic contains a color sensor which turns brightly colored circles on paper records into music.
SpectroSonic was, amongst others, inspired by the work of Russian composer and new-media pioneer Alexander Scriabin and can be considered a tribute to the beauty of color and sound. During the exhibition, visitors are encouraged to let their imagination go wild and compose their own masterpieces using paper and brightly colored markers.
For more information, see Final Project - SpectroSonic
This is a performance combining close-up card trick and Augmented Reality technique, which may let the audience feel a special and funny miracle.
For more infomation, see Open Lab Expo - Visual Deck.
The "Instructions unclear" project started with a question: How can I get visitors to use my interactive installation?
Interactive art is a relatively new trend in museums and venues. It has been around long enough for visitors to feel comfortable around playing with art pieces, but not long enough for guidelines to be established. In a lot of interactive installations, visitors (or observers) feel uncomfortable with interacting with an art piece, as it is not clear to them wether or not they are allowed to do so.
The main goal of the project is to measure visitor participation with an interactive installation. The installation is inviting to use and has a a certain goal. All actions performed by the users of the installation are logged. The results will be reviewed after the exposition.
For the majority of their existence, our experience with computer-based media has been dominated by glaring on colorful geometric shapes inside of of grey boxes sitting on our desks. While recent developments enabled these technologies to leave their confined space to enter new regions of our everyday life, surprisingly little has changed in the visually dominated paradigm governing human-computer interaction. Liquid Media is an experimental interface trying to explore an alternative way.
For more info see Final - Liquid Media
Radio-frequency identification (RFID) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data. This for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects. RFID tags are used in many industries. In our daily life we come across them in stores, where the tags are often placed in sold items such as clothing or books. The tags contain electronically stored information that can be picked up by an antenna. The data of the tag is checked when leaving the store to recognise if an item has been paid for. Other applications include: the use of tags in production process to track objects progressing through an assembly line; or pets may have tags injected, to allow their identification in case they’re lost.
In “What goes here?” we are trying to give RFID technology a new function in our society. As the technology is becoming increasingly cheaper, we believe it could become accessible to poorly funded educational institutions. Inspired by researchers such as Sir Ken Robinson, and Jane McGonigal we are trying to take a small step towards creating more fun, and engaging educational tool for children using the RFID technology.
In this prototype we present you a modest biology quiz. You are presented with 16 symbolic representations of human organs, and requested to scan the objects on a game table depending on a position in a human body presented to you by a computer. Guaranteed fun and a learning experience!
Since the beginning of the 'digital' era, playful activities such as building things out of simple materials have moved away from the physical world into the digital world of computers.
The Sandbox is an installation which tries to bring back some of the excitement of building something in real life by combining an analog sandbox world with the limitless possibilities of the digital world. It consists out of an analog display in which the user can literally build a world with 'sand'.
This world will be combined with projections of a 'digital space' which reacts according to what the user has built in the analog display.
An experiment in game cooperation.
Advertisements on the web become increasingly more targeted at specific users, and often have some interaction involved. This is much less the case in traditional advertisement displays in the real world (such as can be found at a bus station). But why? With modern technology it becomes possible to analyze the beholder to target the advertisement at its viewer's likely interests, as well as to involve them more with playful interactive elements.
We are here to show the (not so far) future of offline advertising.
The installation offers a double experience; a pleasant and a negative one.
It all depends on the way you interact with it.
A real time composition.
An experiment to seek more perception of slightly or completely different images from each eye.
An experiment to connect and interact virtual object with human beings. Use the umbrella to save the Netherlands from the rainstorm.
According to the ancient philosopher Aristotle, “Nature abhors a vacuum.” Aristotle based his conclusion on the observation that nature requires every space to be filled with something, even if that something is colorless, odorless air. Years later physicists have added experimental weight to this saying by the discovery of vaccuum energy, which is thought to influence the behavior of the Universe on cosmological scales. Abhorrent Vacuums is an installation that allows participants to physically experience this principle, mediated by new media technology.
What would it be like to have a real theatre in your room. With you and your friends as the main character?
For the past decade, the home entertainment has progressed dramatically, first it was the surround sound, then came the flat screen televisions and now the 3D flat screens have invaded our living rooms. Although they all created an entertaining experience, they all suffered from the same problem. The viewer was always passive. The real 3d home theatre is taking on this problem and adds the user interaction in the experience. The users can create their own personal dramas on our tiny theatre.
I Decided to take my last musical laser application one step further making it a multitouch application. With a multitouch table you will be able to create stripes with every finger. The stripes/traces are pathways for an audiovisual pattern. So clean those fingers and create your own compositions!
Everyone knows the classical game of Memory: there are a bunch of cards facing downwards on a table and each player has try to flip over 2 matching cards to earn points. On the web you can find variations where you don't see an image when you flip over a card, but instead you hear a sound. Now what if there was no visual feedback at all?
Professional chess players are able to play a game of chess purely by communicating the coordinates of the chess pieces on the board (e.g. "e2-e4" is a pawn opening move). WaveMem combines the audio memory game with the blind chess technique. It's a memory game without any form of visual feedback. The players type in the coordinates of the "cards" and listen to the sounds. Also the feedback on scores, turn changes and the instructions are purely sound based. You can choose the size of the "board", the type of sounds you want to hear (e.g. music samples or animal sounds) and the number of players (1 or 2).
This game will train you to create a mental image of a memory board and to remember the sounds and their locations. In the end, it will help you to enhance your memory through non visual pathways. It can be used as an experimental tool to test a person's memory and it can be played by blind people! A good research question: are blind people better at it than the ones blessed with sight?
This project is created with the Max/MSP programming environment.
How many times you imagine being on a beach realizing you are still in the same old place, with the same old people? This installation creates a similar effect, by projecting dreams that in the end deteriorate to your own reality. As primary influence we are inspired by the famous graffiti artist Banksy.
The project is created with the Max/Msp/Jitter environment.
This project explores the application of recognizing facial expressions for decision-making processes in interactive technology systems.
The proliferation of the Internet, and more specifically of online channels such as YouTube, has caused an exponential rise in the amount of digital media available today. Navigating this huge database demands increasingly sophisticated filtering and query techniques, based on the somewhat behaviorist approach of ranking data on the amount views and 'likes' it receives from its users.
Most people would agree that their opinion is not as clear-cut as 'like' versus 'do not like', and the fact that rating is done post-viewing allows for contrived instead of natural appreciation. The SmileTracker application developed in this study aims to accurately gauge the users' emotive response to digital media, specified to humorous videos. Using an interface with video playback and webcam capturing functionalities, the application detects the user’s emotive response and dynamically composes a ranking of the most fun-appreciated videos.
This project is the first step towards a more developed goal, which aims non-linear storytelling steered by facial expressions of the viewer.
The wiring of most of the electronic devices we use is well-hidden inside some sort of casing. Some of these wrappings are meant to look appealing to the eye (apple products), others are nothing more than simple boxes meant to be functional (electric stove) and sometimes the outside can even be deceiving in what it contains. (my gaming pc which is disguised as a standard packard bell)
This project will explore the different possibilities of the looks of an electronic machine in combination with what you may find inside. The output will be a set of painted boxes of which some will have working hardware inside.
In terms of computing, information has two sides of the coin - there is our physical world in which we experience our existence, and there is the digital domain, where everything we perceive collapses and turns into abstract patterns. This project aims to rediscover the concept of data and demonstrate the link between the real world and the world of 0's and 1's.
What is so attractive about Pole Dancing? Is it the music, the lights, the movements? Would you dare to explore the possibilities that a pole can offer?
Pole Dancing has being going on for many years, but this time we want to build a high-tech pole that will influence space and sound in order to create a different experience for the performer and the audience.
We get more and more served with high definition content in software, videos, the web and on TV. Everything is HD nowadays. Smartphones and tablets already have such a high resolution that pixels become invisible. The higher the resolution, the more pixels, the better. Sometimes, I disagree.
I think we could use some visible pixels, especially during regular browsing. Google and Youtube already made a step in this direction because they use a gray colored background that is slightly pixelated which gives it a bit of a canvas look. It feels more natural.
In this installation the effect of pixelation is exaggerated and reminds us of the quality of early CRT screens or computer graphics.
In times when Multi-touch interfaces have become so popular, it's interesting to explore new forms of interaction in live performances. In this installation you will be able to control video synthesis through your iPhone inside the Ableton Live environment, proving that is possible to make music and visuals with a few hand movements.
This installation challenges the participant to explore an unknown sound source. The sound generated by this source evokes an eerie, uncomfortable feeling with the listener. The installation is made for a staircase, where the source is at the top, and the participant interacts with the sounds by walking up the stairs. The sound source is loosely based on the waterphone or tibetan water drum, these sounds are picked up by microphones and digitally processed in different ways.
Once you can learn how to think
you can left
Words, Red and Blue
Cutting Harmonies, Queen of Glitch
Dancing in Starlight
Lovechild dropped by Night
Boys Boys Boys
Girls Girls Girls in a Cherry Tree
Eh eh...
Her name is Lady Gaga
Lady Gaga 32.8 feet
is a poetic expression of
Lady Gaga's Wikipedia
pages in tangible shape.
"Mirror mirror on the wall
Who's the hottest of them all? "
"You are full fair, 'tis true, but
Paris Hilton is hotter than you."
During the OPENLAB expo there will be an opportunity to play with the FaceLift Webcam.
Artistic expression in the form of drawing is thousands years old, that being on walls, ground or canvas. In the new digital age, computers have been used in various ways to produce a drawing. It is now possible to draw on the computer screen by using various techniques.
This project urges the audience to draw using their face as a tool. Step in front of the camera, alone or with your friends, and start drawing by moving around. Is white on black too boring? Show the color you want to the camera and change to it immediately.
In this installation your heartbeat is scanned and sonified. After sonification your heart sounds like a pulsating machine in a steel plant.
But despite your heart sounds like a machine you still will be able to hear the sound of singing fish and polytheen babies.
Put something red in front of the web cam and an interactive, enchanting sound will be heard.
Litter, final assignment. We all see it, we all feel it. But what if seperating trash would be more fun? Would people then be inclined not to litter but to put it in the right place?
Suppose: A computer knew how you felt, then why not let the computer chat with your friends for you? You can them be busy doing the more important things in life, like updating your Facebook status and tweeting. Chatter (Assignment 2).
Monopoly revamped! Swirl through old technologies!
Creation of social artworks with multiple iOS devices through accelerometer and gyroscope data.
The unholy marriage between ASCII art and a mechanical typewriter. Read more >>
Physical Facebook: A steampunk version of facebook.
Twanvas is a connection between the virtual world of twitter and the real world of space. Twanvas encourages people to draw on a flipboard. The progress of these real drawings will then be uploaded to the virtual twitter space. Twanvas connects virtual and physical spaces and makes us think about how we perceive space and time. (A brief description will be added asap.)
Kinecticle is a physicle particle game that involves the human as the controller. Users have to collaborate to win the game.
Teletext 404: Teletext is static, and passive, but I does not have to be that way.
Face Pong: Using optical face tracking, a derivative of the famous Pong game was created.
Our brain has the capability to process loads of visual data. This data is partly generated by our eyes which let us perceive the world around us. Maybe we can observe more visual aspects of the world if we weren’t limited to only our eyes.
Behold The Desyncapitator, a visual extension machine which will try to blow your minds by feeding a digital remixed version of the surroundings on your retina.
Puzzle time is a project which tries to determine whether people can be trained to read new to the world clocks. A variety of completely weird clocks are shown to users who'd like to know what time it is. As a preview, you can try to see what time it is while this still was taken:
The concept for the mobile game has been sold to an investor. For that reason, we unfortunately cannot publish any info about the game in public. For more info, please visit us at the Scheltema Complex, Tuesday May 31st.
decoding reality in allusion to the workings of the human eye.
artscii – ascii art playground
The game 30 seconds is a bit like the well known Pictionary, but instead of drawing you have to describe the words on your card. The problem with the game is that it come's with a small set of cards and by now we know most of them and the game is less fun. I decided to make an extension for this game. The words for the extension I get from Wikipedia page titles. They are displayed on a mobile phone. Because there are many page titles on Wikipedia that are to difficult or don't make any sense. There will be an option in the app to rate the words. This way we can reduce the number of bad words.
Work in progress: Does right brain activity reflect on the left half of the face? and vice versa.
Also showing: Dynamic Digits, a clock using numbers from its surrounding environment to show the current time.
In this installation you are invited to explore everyday life stories in a different way.
Come and open “invisible doors” in time and space.
Be someone else, while you still have your own identity.
While you move your body (forward, backward and in any direction) in the physical space, you trigger different sounds, that will transport you to a different universe of multiple spaces and different times. In this universe define your own rules, create and recreate life experiences, time travel in others lives in infinite ways.
